{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2639
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 AmericanTypewriter;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 AmericanTypewriter-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww19760\viewh16580\viewkind1
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 ###Read Me\
\
Colin Warnes\
September 29, 2023\
R Language \
\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Here I detail the R Language code used to create the Figures and Tables for: \
\

\f1\b Long Title: 
\f0\b0 Longitudinal Analysis of Post-Acute Chikungunya-Associated Arthralgia in Children and Adults: A Prospective Cohort Study in Managua, Nicaragua (2014-2018).\
\

\f1\b Short Title: 
\f0\b0 Analysis of Post-Acute Chikungunya-Associated Arthralgia in Children and Adults \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Colin M. Warnes,1 Fausto Andres Bustos Carrillo,1,2 Jose Victor Zambrana,3 Brenda Lopez Mercado,3 Sonia Arguello, 3 Oscarlette Ampi\'e9, 3 Damaris Collado,3 Nery Sanchez,3 Sergio Ojeda,3 Guillermina Kuan,3,4 Aubree Gordon,5 Angel Balmaseda,3,6 Eva Harris1,*\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1 Division of Infectious Diseases and Vaccinology, School of Public Health, University of California, Berkeley, Berkeley, California, USA\
2 Division of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, University of California, Berkeley, Berkeley, California, USA\
3 Sustainable Sciences Institute, Managua, Nicaragua\
4 Centro de Salud S\'f3crates Flores Vivas, Ministerio de Salud, Managua, Nicaragua\
5 Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, USA\
6 Laboratorio Nacional de Virolog\'eda, Centro Nacional de Diagn\'f3stico y Referencia, Ministerio de Salud, Managua, Nicaragua\
\
\
\

\f1\b Abstract\

\f0\b0 Chikungunya can result in debilitating arthralgia, often presenting as acute, self-limited pain, but occasionally manifesting chronically. Little is known about differences in chikungunya-associated arthralgia comparing children to adults over time. To characterize long-term chikungunya-associated arthralgia, we recruited 770 patients (105 0-4 year old [y/o] children, 200 5-9 y/o, 307 10-15 y/o, and 158 16+ y/o) with symptomatic chikungunya virus infections in Managua, Nicaragua, during two consecutive chikungunya epidemics (2014-2015). Participants were assessed at ~15 days and 1, 3, 6, 12, and 18 months post-fever onset. Following clinical guidelines, we defined participants by their last reported instance of arthralgia as acute (<10 days post-fever onset), interim (>10 and <90 days), or chronic (>90 days) cases. We observed a high prevalence of arthralgia (80-95%) across all ages over the study period. Overall, the odds of acute arthralgia increased in an age-dependent manner, with the lowest odds of arthralgia in the 0-4 y/o group (odds ratio [OR]: 0.27, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.14-0.51) and the highest odds of arthralgia in the 16+ y/o participants (OR: 4.91, 95% CI: 1.42-30.95) relative to 10-15 y/o participants. Females had higher odds of acute arthralgia than males (OR: 1.63, 95% CI: 1.01-2.65) across all ages. We found that 23-36% of pediatric and 53% of adult participants reported an instance of post-acute arthralgia. Children exhibited the highest prevalence of post-acute polyarthralgia in their legs, followed by the hands and torso \'96 a pattern not seen among adult participants. Further, we observed pediatric chikungunya presenting in two distinct phases: the acute phase and the subsequent interim/chronic phases. Thus, differences in the presentation of arthralgia were observed across age, sex, and disease phase in this longitudinal chikungunya cohort. Our results elucidate the long-term burden of chikungunya-associated arthralgia among pediatric and adult populations. \
\
\
\
\
\
\

\f1\b Acknowledgments\

\f0\b0 We thank the study participants for taking time out of their lives to help us understand more about the presentation of chikungunya. This study was made possible by the dedicated clinical, laboratory, and data scientists at the Sustainable Sciences Institute and Centro de Salud S\'f3crates Flores Vivas in Managua, Nicaragua. Their passion for improving our understanding of neglected tropical diseases benefits at-risk communities across the globe. We thank Victoria Warnes for her support. This work was made possible by the R language and RStudio teams that provide flexible and comprehensive open-source data analysis technology. This study was funded by NIH grants P01AI106695 (to E.H.), U19AI118610 (to E.H.), and R01AI099631 (to A.B.).\
}